### Reading Data from TTN:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Things Network (TTN) provides a default data storage integration to store the data from the LoRa end node free for a period of 7 days. The data in TTN can be accessed via a Swagger API which is authorized using the Device Key under Application Settings in the TTN Console. To access the data from the TTN Swagger API, an iPython Notebook (`ReadTTNData.ipynb`) was used to read the data from **CurL** request. The read data was cleaned and organized into a dataframe format suitable for making data visualizations. 

### Automated Data Logging to Google Spreadsheet:
   Since the free data storage provided by TTN lasts only for 7 days, a custom python (`TTNData2Gsheet_Auto.py`) script was written to automatically log the data coming to the TTN Data Console into a Google Spreadsheet. Google Sheets is a free service with no time limits on data access, so this is an ideal platform to store the data from the LoRa node for data visualization across applications and for future data analytics. The custom python script uses the [df2gspread library](http://df2gspread.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to copy the pandas dataframe to a google spreadsheet based on a set timer duration (eg: every 60 secs). A working demo of this script is provided in [this video link](https://drive.google.com/a/hbksaar.de/uc?authuser=0&id=1_Wf752qvvidY57N5YQVfYN5oZvoxsH8V&export=download). <br>
   
 > Before logging the data to a google spreadsheet, one needs to setup the *Google Drive Access Credentials* in the Google Developer Console. The procedure to do this is well documented in the [df2spread online user manual](http://df2gspread.readthedocs.io/en/latest/overview.html#access-credentials). As referenced in this [Git Issue](https://github.com/maybelinot/df2gspread/issues/20), care should be taken to save the `gdrive_private` secret access key file without any extension to the home folder of the user (Eg: `C:/Users/John` in Windows OS). To save this file without any extension a text editor like *Atom* or *Sublime* can be used.

### Classifying TimeStamps as Day or Night:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For the purpose of interactive Data visualization we classify the hourly timestamps as Day or Night, in the `ClassifyingTimeStamps.ipynb` notebook. The classification is done based on the sunset and sunrise times of the location.